Implementation of ODoH in 1.1.1.1 (#2254)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/1.1.1.1/src/content/encrypted-dns/odoh.md

---
order:
pcx-content: reference
---

# Oblivious DNS over HTTPS

> Oblivious DNS over HTTPS (or ODoH) is an emerging DNS protocol that separates client IP addresses from their DNS queries. This is done by routing the DNS queries over a proxy, so that the DNS resolver cannot link client IPs with their queries. You can learn more about it in [this blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/oblivious-dns/). To follow the progress of ODoH, [check out this IETF draft](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-pauly-dprive-oblivious-doh/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oblivious DNS over HTTPS (or ODoH) is an emerging DNS protocol that separates client IP addresses from their DNS queries. This is done by routing the DNS queries over an HTTP relay, or proxy, so that the DNS resolver cannot link client IPs with their queries. You can learn more about it in [this blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/oblivious-dns/). To follow the progress of ODoH, [check out this IETF draft](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-pauly-dprive-oblivious-doh/).
```

> Please note that this protocol and all related implementations are currently **experimental** and subject to change. Use at your own risk.

Reviewer 2: We should include a caveat—an `<Aside>` would be useful here—that the trade-off with Oblivious DNS is that it is slower, by necessity of using two hops for privacy. 

Further, we need to tell users that using two ODoH servers from the target is not truly "oblivious", because the target and the proxy can see both sides of the connection. Users who expect to get a privacy (anonymization) benefit from ODoH won't see that here.

## Client setup

### Command line tools

> Using ODoH with 1.1.1.1 (via odoh.cloudflare-dns.com) is simple. For a quick test, you can use the [odoh-client-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-client-rs) and [odoh-client-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-client-go) tools, which are applications for sending ODoH queries from the terminal. For example, the example below shows how to use the odoh-client-go to send an ODoH query directly to 1.1.1.1 (without a proxy):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using ODoH with 1.1.1.1 (via odoh.cloudflare-dns.com) is simple. For a quick test, you can use the [odoh-client-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-client-rs) and [odoh-client-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-client-go) tools, which are applications for sending ODoH queries from the terminal. For example, the example below shows how to use the odoh-client-go to send an ODoH query directly to 1.1.1.1 (without traversing a proxy):
```

```sh
./odoh-client odoh --target odoh.cloudflare-dns.com --domain example.com       
;; opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 46957
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.com.	IN	 AAAA

;; ANSWER SECTION:
example.com.	72953	IN	AAAA	2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946
```

You can also use this tool to send a query through a proxy with the `--proxy` flag.

### Browser configuration

Firefox Nightly currently supports ODoH. It can be configured with the following `about:config` parameters:

<TableWrap>

Parameters | Description
-----------|------------
`network.trr.odoh.configs_uri` | URI for the ODoH target configuration. e.g., https://odoh.cloudflare-dns.com/.well-known/odohconfigs.
`network.trr.odoh.enabled` | Boolean to enable ODoH support, which must be set to true.

> `network.trr.odoh.proxy_uri` | URI of the proxy. e.g., https://example.com/proxy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`network.trr.odoh.proxy_uri` | URI of the proxy. e.g., `https://example.com/proxy`.
```

Reviewer 3: This helps prevent broken links in our reporting.

`network.trr.odoh.target_host` | Host of the ODoH target server. e.g., `https://odoh.cloudflare-dns.com`.
`network.trr.odoh.target_path` | Path for the ODoH target queries. e.g., /dns-query

</TableWrap>

Instructions for configuring these parameters can be found on [Mozilla’s website](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/about-config-editor-firefox). ODoH is not yet currently enabled for other browsers.

### System resolver

If you want to run ODoH on your system, you can use [dnscrypt-proxy](https://github.com/DNSCrypt/dnscrypt-proxy), a client DNS proxy that supports ODoH and other encrypted DNS protocols. Installation and configuration instructions may be found [in GitHub](https://github.com/dnscrypt/dnscrypt-proxy/wiki/installation). A sample dnscrypt-proxy configuration file that uses ODoH is as follows:

```txt
server_names = ['odohtarget', 'odohrelay']
 
[static.'odohtarget']
stamp = 'sdns://BQcAAAAAAAAAF29kb2guY2xvdWRmbGFyZS1kbnMuY29tCi9kbnMtcXVlcnk'
 
[static.'odohrelay']
stamp = 'sdns://<stamp-of-relay-here>'
 
[anonymized_dns]
routes = [
    { server_name='odohtarget', via=['odohrelay'] }
]
```

> You may encode the `odohrelay` stamp using [this online DNS stamp calculator](https://dnscrypt.info/stamps). The relay must specify the URI for proxying ODoH requests, including the scheme, host (and port, if applicable), and path.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may encode the `odohrelay` stamp using [this online DNS stamp calculator](https://dnscrypt.info/stamps). The relay must specify the URI for proxying ODoH queries, including the scheme, host (and port, if applicable), and path.  
```

Decoding the `odohtarget` stamp above using [the online DNS stamp calculator](https://dnscrypt.info/stamps) yields `https://odoh.cloudflare-dns.com/dns-query` as the target URI.

## Application integration

> If you’re an application developer and want to integrate ODoH into your app, you can do so using any of the following core protocol libraries:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are an application developer and want to integrate ODoH into your app, use any of the following core protocol libraries:
```

* [odoh-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-rs) (Rust)
* [odoh-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-go) (Go)

There are currently no known libraries in Swift or Java.

## Server setup instructions

> Running an ODoH server — either a proxy or target - is more involved. A turnkey proxy and target is available in [odoh-server-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go), a sample server that can be used to run a proxy or a target for ODoH. Up to date deployment instructions on a variety of platforms, including bare metals, are available in the [project’s README](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go#deployment).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Running an ODoH server — either a proxy or target - is more involved. A turnkey proxy and target is available in [odoh-server-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go), which provides a sample server that can be used to run a proxy or a target for ODoH. Up to date deployment instructions on a variety of platforms, including commodity servers, are available in the [project’s README](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go#deployment).
```

> Running an ODoH server — either a proxy or target - is more involved. A turnkey proxy and target is available in [odoh-server-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go), which provides a sample server that can be used to run a proxy or a target for ODoH. Up to date deployment instructions on a variety of platforms, including commodity servers, are available in the [project’s README](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go#deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running an ODoH server — either a proxy or target - is more involved. A turnkey proxy and target is available in [odoh-server-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go), which provides a sample server that can be used to run a proxy or a target for ODoH. Deployment instructions on a variety of platforms, including commodity servers, are available in the [project’s README](https://github.com/cloudflare/odoh-server-go#deployment).
```
